---
author: jill
---

Acclaimed American artist Richard Phillips and Porsche have collaborated to create an exceptional work of art of Porsche’s first all-electric sports car, the Taycan. In December of last year, the Taycan Artcar was created live at the Leuehof pop-up restaurant on Zurich’s Bahnhofstrasse. With the support of RM Sotheby’s, the single and unique piece will be auctioned globally from April 6 to 13, 2021. All proceeds will be donated to Switzerland’s non-profit association Suisseculture Sociale. Porsche and its project partners thereby seek to support artists in Switzerland who have been hit especially hard by the COVID-19 pandemic.


Taycan Artcar by Richard Phillips, Zurich, Switzerland, 2021, Porsche AG
“Porsche’s first purely electric sports car, the Taycan, represents a new chapter in the company’s history,” says Michael Glinski, CEO of Porsche Schweiz AG. “We wanted to capture this achievement by working together with a leading artist. The result is this creation, which reflects the guiding principles of sustainability and electromobility and of course also places a strong focus on nature in Switzerland. By auctioning the work and donating the proceeds we want to help the Swiss cultural landscape, which has been hit especially hard by the pandemic. Porsche has set a confident course through this crisis and we are eager to give something back to the community.”

The Leuehof restaurant from Nenad Mlinarevic and Valentin Diem, where the mobile artwork was created and exhibited, has been severely affected by the pandemic as well. As a partner of the restaurant, Porsche displayed the Artcar in their culinary art space. As a result of the measures adopted to contain the coronavirus, Leuehof had to close last December and will not be able to reopen, due to the regulations that remain in force. For this reason, the Taycan Artcar will on display in different Porsche Centres in Switzerland: from March 1 at the Porsche Centre Geneva, from March 22 at the Porsche Centre Zurich. After the auction, it will be on display at the Porsche Centre Zug and will be handed over to the highest bidder.
